---
title: "TCP와 UDP의 차이"
classes: wide
categories: 
  - blog
  - etc
sidebar:
  nav: "main"
author_profile: true
---
   

* Network
a group of computers that use a set of 
common communication protocols over digital interconnections 
for the purpose of sharing resources located on 
or provided by the network nodes

* Socket
an internal endpoint for sending or receiving data 
within a node on a computer network.

* Server
computer program or a device that provides functionality (services)
for other programs or devices, called "clients"
such as sharing data or resources among multiple clients, 
or performing computation for a client

* Client
a piece of computer hardware or software 
that accesses a service made available by a server


/* 
* what is a node? - redistribution point or a communication endpoint
	physical layer-wise, it is an electronic device that is attached to a network, 
	and is capable of creating, receiving, 
	or transmitting information over a communications channel.

 * OSI Model(Open system interconnection reference model)
 L1: physical layer - HUB, bit, (bottom layer)
 - responsible for the transmission and reception of unstructured raw data 
	between a device and a physical transmission medium
 - coverts digital data into signal
 
 L2: data link layer - L2 switch, frame
 - provides node-to-node data transfer, a link between two directly connected nodes. 
	 node-to-node data transfer: movement of data from one node of a network to the next
 - detects and possibly corrects errors that may occur in the physical layer
 - defines the protocol to establish and terminate a connection between two physically connected devices
 - assigned physical address(MAC)
 - defines the protocol for flow control between them

 L3: network layer - Router(L3 switch), packet
 - transferring variable length data sequences (called packets) 
	from one node to another connected in "different networks"
 - if the message is too large, then it will be splitted and sent as several fragments
 - A network is a medium to which many nodes can be connected, 
 on which every node has an address and which permits nodes connected to it 
 to transfer messages to other nodes connected to it 
 by merely providing the content of a message 
 and the address of the destination node 
 and letting the network find the way to deliver the message to the destination node, 
 possibly routing it through intermediate nodes
 * Routing is the process of selecting a path for traffic in a network or between or across multiple networks

 L4: transport layer
 - transferring variable-length data sequences from a source to a destination host, 
	while maintaining the quality of service functions.
 - controls the reliability of a given link through flow control, 
	segmentation/desegmentation, and error control
	* Flow control is the process of managing the rate of data transmission 
	between two nodes to prevent a fast sender from overwhelming a slow receiver. 
	It provides a mechanism for the receiver to control the transmission speed, 
	so that the receiving node is not overwhelmed with data from transmitting node.

 L5: session layer
 - controls the dialogues (connections) between computers
 - establishes, manages and terminates the connections between the local and remote application
 - responsible for gracefully closing a session,
 - responsible for session checkpointing and recovery
	* Session is a technique which maintains a status, that is a series of requests from single, identical user for a "moement"
		Also means of logical connection between users or client servers

 L6: presentation layer
 - establishes context between application-layer entities
 - provides independence from data representation by translating between application and network formats
 - transforms data into the form that the application accepts

 L7: application layer - (top layer)
 - both the OSI application layer and the user interact directly with the software application
 - interacts with software applications that implement a communicating component
 - identifying communication partners, 
	determining resource availability, 
	and synchronizing communication.
	
Application		 					High-level APIs, including resource sharing, remote file access
Presentation	Data				Translation of data between a networking service and an application; including character encoding, data compression and encryption/decryption
Session								Managing communication sessions, i.e., continuous exchange of information in the form of multiple back-and-forth transmissions between two nodes
Transport		Segment, Datagram	Reliable transmission of data segments between points on a network, including segmentation, acknowledgement and multiplexing
Network			Packet				Structuring and managing a multi-node network, including addressing, routing and traffic control
Data link		Frame				Reliable transmission of data frames between two nodes connected by a physical layer
Physical		Symbol				Transmission and reception of raw bit streams over a physical medium

*/

/* 
 *what is a packet?
	actual data to be delivered
	contains address, error data, ...
	enable to be time-sliced => once disconnected, 
	it can detour and send the rest of the data
	missed data can be re-sent
	need unique id and order to be shared => reason why there is a protocol
	tcp/ip => the system using this protocol is "ethernet"
*/

What is TCP?
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a connection-oriented protocol 
that computers use to communicate over the internet. 
It is one of the main protocols in TCP/IP networks. 
TCP provides error-checking and guarantees delivery of data 
and that packets will be delivered in the order they were sent.
- 인터넷을 경유해 통신하는 연결 지향성 프로토콜
- 에러 체킹을 지원
- 데이터의 완전한 전송을 보장
- 패킷의 전송 순서를 보장

What is UDP?
User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is a connectionless protocol 
that works just like TCP 
but assumes that error-checking and recovery services are not required. 
Instead, UDP continuously sends datagrams to the recipient 
whether they receive them or not.
- 작동방식은 TCP와 동일
- 데이터그램을 연속해서 목적지로 전송
- 전송된 데이터의 신뢰성은 보장되지 않음

What’s the difference? 
*차이점

Connection and connectionless
연결지향성과 비연결지향성
TCP is a connection-oriented protocol 
and UDP is a connection-less protocol. 
TCP establishes a connection between a sender 
and receiver before data can be sent. 

UDP does not establish a connection before sending data.
- TCP는 전송 전 센더와 리시버 사이의 연결을 성립
- UDP는 그딴 거 없음

Reliability
TCP is reliable. 
Data sent using a TCP protocol is guaranteed to be delivered to the receiver. 
If data is lost in transit it will recover the data and resend it. TCP will also check packets for errors and track packets so that data is not lost or corrupted.

UDP is unreliable, 
it does not provide guaranteed delivery 
and a datagram packet may become corrupt or lost in transit.
- TCP로 전송된 데이터는 리시버에게 완전히 전달되는 것이 보장됨
	데이터 손실이 있으면 데이터는 다시 보내짐
- UDP로 전송되는 데이터는 전송 중 데이터가 오염될 수도 누락될 수도 있음


Flow control
TCP uses a flow control mechanism 
that ensures a sender is not overwhelming a receiver 
by sending too many packets at once. 
TCP stores data in a send buffer 
and receives data in a receive buffer. 
When an application is ready, 
it will read the data from the receive buffer. 
If the receive buffer is full, 
the receiver would not be able to handle more data 
and would drop it.
To maintain the amount of data that can be sent to a receiver, 
the receiver tells the sender how much spare room in the receive buffer there is (receive window). 
Every time a packet is received, 
a message is sent to the sender with the value of the current receive window.

UDP does not provide flow control. 
With UDP, packets arrive in a continuous stream 
or they are dropped.
- TCP는 FLOW CONTROL을 제공함
	이는 리시버가 데이터를 전송하는 센더를 컨트롤 하는 권한임
	이는 리시버가 빠르고 연속적인 데이터 전송으로 인해 과부하가 걸리는 것을 막기 위함임
	리시버는 센더에게 가용할 수 있는 남은 리시브 버퍼의 사이즈를 알려줌
	리시버가 패킷을 받을 때마다, 센더에게 가용할 버퍼 사이즈를 알리는 메세지가 날아감
- UDP는 그딴 거 없음. 스트림에 통째로 실려오거나 그 중 몇개가 없음

Ordering
TCP does ordering and sequencing to guarantee 
that packets sent from a server will be delivered to the client 
in the same order they were sent. 
On the other hand, UDP sends packets in any order.
- TCP는 신뢰도 높은 전송을 위해 패킷의 순서를 정하고 시퀀싱 과정을 거침
- UDP는 그딴 거 없음

Speed
TCP is slower than UDP because it has a lot more to do. 
TCP has to establish a connection, error-check, 
and guarantee that files are received in the order they were sent.
- TCP가 할 게 많아서 ㅈㄴ 느림
	연결하고, 에러체크하고, 패킷이 보낸 순서대로 잘 갔는지 확인함
- UDP는 그딴 거 없음

Usage
TCP is best suited to be used for applications that require high reliability 
where timing is less of a concern.
World Wide Web (HTTP, HTTPS)
Secure Shell (SSH)
File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
Email (SMTP, IMAP/POP)
- TCP는 타이밍, 속도와 중요하지 않으면서 높은 신뢰도와 보안이 중요한 곳에 쓰임

VPN tunneling
Streaming videos
Online games
Live broadcasts
Domain Name System (DNS)
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)
Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)
UDP is best suited for applications that require speed and efficiency.
- UDP는 속도와 효율성이 중시되는 곳에 쓰임

  TCP와 UDP의 차이
What is TCP?
- 인터넷을 경유해 통신하는 연결 지향성 프로토콜
- 에러 체킹을 지원
- 데이터의 완전한 전송을 보장
- 패킷의 전송 순서를 보장
- TCP는 FLOW CONTROL을 제공함
What is UDP?
- 작동방식은 TCP와 동일
- 데이터그램을 연속해서 목적지로 전송
- 전송된 데이터의 신뢰성은 보장되지 않음
  
---  
출처:   
* https://quinoa.tistory.com/31
